DOCS-11606-2.4-dw-cookbook-reorganization-kt (#21)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-cookbook.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: studio, anypoint, transform, transformer, format, aggregate, rename, split, filter convert, xml, json, csv, pojo, java object, metadata, dataweave, data weave, datamapper, dwl, dfl, dw, output structure, input structure, map, mapping, examples

> 

Reviewer: Edit instructions

Scope: Intro paragraph, subsection titles and subsection intro. You can omit the xref descriptions.

Note: We are reorganizing the DW documentation, as DW will have its own level in the ToC, it will not be embedded in the Mule Runtime docs anymore. Therefore for the DW Examples landing page, we want to have 2 sections that categorize the following:

- DW standalone examples
- Mule application examples that use DW

We would like your input on how to name these sections so they are clear for the user, you will see our comments in the PR.

> The following DataWeave examples demonstrate common data extraction and transformation approaches. There are general examples of how to transform data, and also examples of how to use DataWeave in Mule runtime engine (Mule) applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following DataWeave examples demonstrate common data extraction and transformation approaches. The examples illustrate transformations in DataWeave scripts and in Mule configuration XML.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure if my suggestion captures the division precisely. Others might have better suggestions.

Reviewer 3: Maybe something like: 

`The following DataWeave examples demonstrate common data extraction and transformation approaches. There are DataWeave code examples of how to transform data, and also examples of Mule applications that implemente DataWeave transformations.`

Reviewer: From having reviewed this conversation, at this point I suggest that we take the exact wording that you decide upon for the intro text and convert it into two parallel subtitles. It is important to:

- Use introductory text that implies the distinction between the two subtopics.

- Create brief but parallel subtitles that represent the distinct nature of each subtopic: at this point, it appears that "transform(nation)" is the term that the two subtopics have in common:
     - DataWeave Data Transformation Code
     - DataWeave Data Transformation (Code) as Implemented by Mule Applications

- Text that immediately follows each subtitle and expands upon it to make it perfectly clear (title+short description=full explanation of the content within each subtopic)
     - The following examples focus on application-agnostic DataWeave data extraction and transformation....
     - The following examples focus on DataWeave data extraction and transformation as implemented in Mule applications....
     
The exact titles and short descriptions will depend on what wording you choose to capture the division in a way that your audience will understand.

//LINK TO DW 1.0 EXAMPLES:
include::partial$dataweave1-links.adoc[tag=dataweave1Examples]

> == DataWeave General Examples

Reviewer 2: Not sure if people will understand what “DataWeave General Examples” means. I’m not sure what a good alternative is. Perhaps the page could avoid subsections, or maybe Kim or Cris have ideas here.

Reviewer 3: DataWeave Code Examples ?

Reviewer: See above ^

Reviewer: I agree that "general" is not the right word. 
It seems to me that the division is between describing A Process and How A Process Is Implemented...maybe:

- DataWeave Code Examples?
- DataWeave Code Implementation (in Mule) Examples?

> These examples show how to use DataWeave to extract and transform data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These examples show how to use DataWeave to extract and transform data, regardless of which application is implementing this process.
```

Reviewer: ...or "...aside from a specific implementation"?

| Defines a function that expects to receive two inputs: a function to apply and an element to apply it on. The function is also recursively applied to the element's children. It uses `mapObject` `lower` `is` `if/else`.
|===

== DataWeave Examples in Mule

These examples show how to use DataWeave to extract and transform data in Mule applications.

[cols="2,5a",options="header"]
|===
|Example a| Description
//change-script-output-mime
|  xref:dataweave-cookbook-change-script-output-mime.adoc[Change a Script's Output Mime Type]
| Shows how to customize the MIME type of a given format output, including an example of a JSON output with `application/problem+json` MIME type.
//xlsx-lookup
| xref:dataweave-cookbook-xlsx-lookup.adoc[Look Up Data in an Excel (XLSX) File]
| Uses `filter` to return rows that contain a specified value.
//csv-lookup
| xref:dataweave-cookbook-csv-lookup.adoc[Look Up Data in CSV File]

> | Uses `filter` with `map` to look up data in a CSV file and return a country code for each calling code found within an input array of phone numbers.

Reviewer: ditto: Shows how to use....
OR
perhaps the FIRST description should begin with "Customizes..." rather than "Shows how to customize"?
The goal is parallelism.

//decode-encode-base64
| xref:dataweave-cookbook-decode-encode.adoc[Decode and Encode Base64]

> | Converts a file stream into Base64 and converts a Base64 string into a file stream. Uses a PDF file as the input and output.

Reviewer: Although it is Latin, I would not be opposed to the use of "vice versa" here.
```suggestion
| Converts a file stream into Base64, and vice versa, using a PDF file as the input and output.
```

//java-methods
|  xref:dataweave-cookbook-java-methods.adoc[Call Java Methods with DataWeave]
| Calls Java methods from a Java class in a Mule project.
//readwrite-flatfile

> |  xref:dataweave-cookbook-flat-file-read-and-write.adoc[Read and Write a Flat File]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  xref:dataweave-cookbook-flat-file-read-and-write.adoc[Read and Write Flat Files]
```
...or change the text that follows to be singular (file) as well.

| Defines a function that expects to receive two inputs: a function to apply and an element to apply it on. The function is also recursively applied to the element's children. It uses `mapObject` `lower` `is` `if/else`.
|===

> == DataWeave Examples in Mule

Reviewer 3: Mule Examples that Implement DataWeave? 
Example DataWeave Transformations in Mule Applications? 
Examples of Mule Applications that Implement DataWeave?
